Q1.) Explain what version control is and its importance in software development.
Ans) Version control is a system that tracks changes to a set of files over time. It allows developers to see
who made what changes and when, and to revert to previous versions of the code if needed. Version control is
essential for software development because it allows teams to collaborate on the same project without
stepping on each other's toes@
Here are some of its importance in software development 2
i) Collaboration:- makes it easy for multiple developers to work on the same project at the same time.
Developers can create their own branches of the code to work on new features or fix bugs, and then merge
their changes back into the main codebase once they are complete.
ii)History:- keeps a complete history of all changes to the code. This makes it easy to track down the source of
a bug or to revert to a previous version of the code if necessary.
iii)Backup:- serves as a backup for the code. If a developer accidentally deletes a file or makes a mistake,
they can easily restore the file or revert to a previous version of the code
iv)Auditing:- it can be used to audit changes to the code. This can be helpful for tracking down security
vulnerabilities or for complying with regulations.


Q2) Explain the Git Workflow, including the staging area, working directory, and repository.
Ans2)The Git workflow is a set of steps and stages that developers follow to manage and track changes
effectively using Git, a popular version control system. It involves three main components: the working
directory, the staging area (also known as the index), and the repository.
i) Working Directory:- The working directory is the local file system where you create, edit, and organize your
project files. When you initiate a Git repository in a directory, it becomes a part of the working directory.
ii) Staging Area (Index):- The staging area is an intermediate area between the working directory and the
repository. It acts as a holding area for changes you want to include in the next commit. Before a file's changes
are committed, they need to be staged in the index.
iii) Repository:- The repository, also known as the Git repository or Git database, is where Git permanently
stores committed snapshots of your project. It contains the complete history of changes, branches, tags, and
other Git-related data.


Q3. Explain what .gi1ignore is and why it’s important in version control.
Ans) A .gitignore file is a text file that tells Git which files and folders to ignore. It is usually placed in the
root directory of a project. When Git sees a .gitignore file, it will ignore any files or folders that are listed in the
file.
The .gitignore files are important in version control because they help to keep the repository clean and
organized. They also prevent developers from accidentally committing unnecessary files to the repository,
such as log files, build artifacts, and IDE configuration files.
Here are some examples of files and folders that you might want to ignore in a Git repository: - personal secret
keys or files, log files, 3uilt artifacts, IDE config files, and temporary files.


Q4. Briefly explain what GitHub is and how it facilitates collaboration and version control also name some 
alternatives to GitHub.

Ans) GitHub is a cloud-Bastd hosting service that helps developers start and manage their code, as well
as track and control changes to their code over time. It also provides a number of features that make it easy for
teams to collaborate on software projtcts.

GitHub facilitates collaboration and version control in the following ways:-

i)Version Control:- GitHub uses Git, a distributed version control system, to track changes to code. This allows
dtvtloptrs to stt who Ladt what changts and whtn, and to rtvtrt to prtvious vtrsions of tht codt if
ntctssary4
ii)Branches and Pull requests:- GitHub makes it easy for developers to create and manage branches of their
code. This allows developers to work on ntw ftaturts or fix Eugs without afftcting tht Lain codtEast. Onct
a dtvtloptr is rtady to Ltrgt thtir changts Eack into tht Lain codtEast, thty can crtatt a pull rtqutst.
This allows othtr dtvtloptrs to rtvitw tht changts and providt fttdEack Etfort thty art Ltrgtd4
iii)Issues and tasks:- GitHub providts a way for dtvtloptrs to track issuts and tasks rtlattd to thtir codt. This
helps ttaLs to stay organiztd and to prioritizt thtir work4
iv)Code Reviews:- GitHub Lakts it tasy for dtvtloptrs to rtvitw tach othtr's codt. This htlps to improve the
quality of tht codt and to idtntify pottntial Eugs4
v)Discussions:- GitHub providts a way for dtvtloptrs to discuss thtir codt and ask qutstions. This htlps to
proLott collaboration and knowledge sharing.


Q5) Describe the process of contributing to any open source project on Github in a step-by-step manner.

Ans5) To contribute to any project on GitHub, you can follow these steps:
Step 1: Fork the Repository
The first step is to fork the repository you want to contribute to. Forking creates a copy of the repository in your GitHub account that you can freely modify without affecting the original repository.

Step 2: Clone the Repository
The next step is to clone the repository to your local machine. Cloning creates a local copy of the repository on your computer, allowing you to make changes to the code and test them locally before pushing them back to the remote repository on GitHub.

Step 3: Create a New Branch
First, change to the repository directory on your computer:
cd first-contributions
Before making any changes, create a new branch for your contributions. This allows you to isolate your changes from the main codebase and makes it easier to manage changes.
To create a new branch, run the following command:
git checkout -b <add-your-name>

Step 4: Make Changes
Now that you have created a new branch, it's time to make your changes. In this example, we will add your name to the CONTRIBUTORS.md file.
Open the CONTRIBUTORS.md file in your preferred text editor and add your name to the file, following the format of the existing entries:
- [Your Name](https://github.com/your-username)
Save the file once you have made your changes.

Step 5: Stage and Commit Changes
Once you have made your changes, you need to stage and commit them. Staging prepares your changes to be committed and committing records your changes in the repository's history.
To stage your changes, enter the following command in your terminal:
git add .
This will stage all the changes you have made in the repository.
To commit your changes, enter the following command:
git commit -m "Add <your-name> to Contributors list"
Replacing <your-name>with your name.

Step 6: Push Changes
Now that you have committed your changes, the final step is to push them to your forked repository on GitHub.
To push your changes, enter the following command:
git push origin <new-branch-name>
Replace <new-branch-name> with the name of the branch you created in step 3.

Step 7: Create a Pull Request
The final step is to create a pull request to merge your changes into the original repository. A pull request is a request to the original repository owner to accept your changes.
To create a pull request, go to your forked repository on GitHub and click on the New Pull Request button.
In the pull request page, select the branch you created in your forked repository as the head branch and the main repository's branch as the base branch. 


Q6) Deploy Tailwind projects named Youtube, slack, and Gmail clones on GitHub pages and share the 
deployed link of those three. Expected output - Live hosted URL Link of your deployed respective website with 
GitHub pages.
Ans)
